# Hive Scheduler Demonstration Application

This application demonstrates the Stochastic Gradiant Response algorithm as applied to searching a function. The example function is g(x, y) = sin^2(4*pi*x) * sin^2(4*pi*y), and the algorithm attempts to find as many points as it can below a certain threshold.

When run, the application will be assigned a "experiment folder" that will contain the configuration for the experiment and will be the location to which the data will be stored. A folder named "logs" will be created to contain the logs of the experiment run, and images will be stored with the charts of the data generated by the run of the experiment.

## Stochastic Gradiant Response

Stochastic Gradiant Response is a type of emergent behavior characterised by a large group of actors following a consistent set of rules and behaviors that is characterized by the individual agents following a consistent set of rules, but the individual actors have randomly assigned individual preferences and the distribution of the random preferences determine the response curve of the system. The system itself does not compel the actors to take any particular action and yet the cumulative behavior of the agents is able respond proportionately to external stimuli.

This is different from other forms of "emergent behavior" algorithms such as the Boids algorithm (REFERENCE) or Cucker-Smale algorithm modeling actions like flocking behavior. In a flock (or school of fish), the important behavior is that the entire flock converges on a shared value, such as each bird adopting the same flight vector as the average flight vector of the flock, because the agents want both to avoid leaving the flock and also to avoid running into other birds in the flock. However, the specific vector is not important. Stochastic Gradiant Response provides and algorithm for agents to decide whether to join in a joint enterprise, _or not to join the enterprise_, in a way that ensures that resources are preferentially allocated to the highest priority tasks.

## Usage

### Parameters

The application is provided at start-up with a reference to a folder that is expected to have a sub-folder named "config" that contains a properties file called "experiment.conf" in the format of the TypeSafe Configuration properties file. The following properties have meaning:

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.duration:
- The length of time to run the experiment. Required

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.dispatcher.numWorkers:
- The number of agents to use to explore the function. Required

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.workers.loopDelay:
- An artificial delay introduced into the main loop of the workers. Optional, defaults to 50 ms. This is adjustable because it interacts with the variable delayPerProspect and numWorkers in establishing the probability of an agent seeing a task.

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.workers.explorer.numPointToExplore:
- The number of points an explorer will search through before giving up if it hasn't found a prospect. Required.

eusocialcoooperation.scheduler.workers.explorer.threshold:
- The threshold below which a point is considered a prospect. Required.

eusocialcoooperation.scheduler.workers.explorer.explorationRadius:
- The distance an explorer will travel in a random direction to the next point to explore. Required.

eusocialcoooperation.scheduler.workers.explorer.delayPerProspect:
- The amount of time a prospect is to remain visible to agents looking for a new task before it is dropped, per point discovered below the threshold. Required. For instance, if the explorer found 5 low spots, it will submit a prospect point that is at the average position of those 5 points, and request that the prospect remain visible for 5 * delayPerProspect.

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.workeres.exploiter.increment:
- The distance between points in the grid the exploiter will explore. Required.

eusocialcooperation.scheduler.workers.exploiter.fuzziness:
- The upper-bound of the random offset introduced by the agent to avoid exactly duplicating the work of other agents that may have chosen this point.

## Development

### Design

## Project Layout